---
layout: post
title: Garmin Connect IQ
subtitle: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/FAQ.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [Garmin, Connect IQ, Workout Reserve, FAQ]
author: Andrea Zignoli and Phil Whitehurst
---

Athletica launched its Workout Reserve feature in April 2023. As we enter 2024, we are excited to introduce real-time workout reserve tracking on Garmin devices. Here are some frequently asked questions to help you set up and troubleshoot the feature.

### 0. Is my Garmin device compatible with the Athletica Workout Reserve app?

Check if your Garmin device is in the list of supported devices [here](https://apps.garmin.com/apps/c9a93545-7db0-4a1b-b955-21db19edbf9d?tid=1).

### 1. Why can’t I find the Workout Reserve data field on Connect IQ?

The data field is built for compatible devices only. If your device model has not been added to the compatible devices list, then it won’t appear in Connect IQ on your mobile or the Connect IQ app on your device.

### 2. Hints and Tips for Installation

Make sure you have your paired phone and Garmin device ready. Ensure both the Connect and Connect IQ apps are installed. Here’s what to do:

- Turn off the battery saver on your Garmin device, as it reduces communication frequency.
- Once installed, add the data field to a new or existing data screen under IQ.
- After installation, keep your phone and device on for at least 15 minutes for successful authorization.

### 3. The Athletica Workout Reserve Data Field Shows 99.9% or 100%

The data field requires power data for cycling. If you do not have a power meter source or the sensor is disconnected, you will see this issue. For running, you do not need a power meter but the running speed from GPS.

### 4. The Athletica Workout Reserve Data Field Shows PROFILE N/A

The data field is currently available for cycling and running. Installing it on a screen for a different activity type will result in a PROFILE N/A message.

### 5. The Athletica Workout Reserve Data Field Shows NO PROFILE

This means that the Athletica Workout Reserve profile has not been downloaded or authorized yet. Follow the setup steps carefully and ensure that your device is not turned off prematurely during the first authorization.

### 6. How Often is My Athletica Workout Reserve Profile Updated on the Device?

After the initial download, updates will occur every 10 hours or when your device is turned on. The data field can update in as little as 10 seconds if your device is connected to Wi-Fi.

### 7. Do I Need to Wait for Athletica Workout Reserve Profile Updates to Start My Activity?

You can start your activity without waiting for the profile update. If you start an activity before the update, it will use the last downloaded Athletica Workout Reserve profile.

### 8. Do I Need to Take My Phone During an Activity?

No, the data field only needs the phone connection to obtain your Athletica Workout Reserve profile. During an activity, you can leave your phone behind, and the data field will continue to work.

### 9. Why Doesn’t the Data Field Calculate the Athletica Workout Reserve Profile?

Calculating the Workout Reserve profile requires more computational resources than the data field can handle. This process is done on Athletica’s servers to ensure accurate calculations.

### 10. How Do I Know if I Used My Latest Athletica Workout Reserve Profile During My Activity?

In Garmin Connect, the activity stats tab will show the Athletica Workout Reserve calculated by the data field, along with the date of the Athletica Workout Reserve profile used.

### 11. I Heard the Download Tone During My Activity, but the Profile Date is from Yesterday

If a newer profile is downloaded mid-activity, it will not be used until the next activity. This ensures stability and consistency during your current workout.

### 12. The Athletica Workout Reserve Showing in Garmin Connect is Different from Athletica Workout Reserve on Athletica

The difference may be due to the website calculating a newer Athletica Workout Reserve profile than the one used during the activity. The data field calculates Athletica Workout Reserve in real-time with limited resources, while the website uses more comprehensive data to make its calculations.

